konvoy: Update docs for konvoy release (#2802)
mesosphere/dcos-docs-site: pages/ksphere/konvoy/latest/install/install-gcp/advanced-provisioning/index.md

---
layout: layout.pug
navigationTitle: Advanced provisioning options Google Cloud Platform (GCP)
title: Advanced provisioning options Google Cloud Platform (GCP)
menuWeight: 5
excerpt: Configure advanced provisioning options for installing Konvoy on Google Cloud Platform (GCP)
enterprise: false
---

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD004 MD007 MD025 MD030 -->

> The topics in this section describe advanced provisioning and configuration options for Konvoy when deploying on Google Cloud Platform (GCP).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The topics in this section describe advanced provisioning and configuration options for deploying Konvoy on the Google Cloud Platform (GCP).
```

# Customize region and availability zones

> Konvoy supports provisioning hosts across multiple zones in an GCP region.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Konvoy supports provisioning hosts across multiple zones in a GCP region.
```

> For instance, the following configuration will instruct Konvoy to provision hosts across the three zones in `us-west1` region.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For instance, the following configuration instructs Konvoy to provision hosts across the three zones in `us-west1` region.
```

```yaml
kind: ClusterProvisioner
apiVersion: konvoy.mesosphere.io/v1beta1
metadata:
  name: konvoy
spec:
  provider: gcp
  gcp:
    region: us-west1
    zones:
    - us-west1-a
    - us-west1-b
    - us-west1-c
```

# Customize instance types, volumes and OS Image

> Konvoy allows users to customize instance types, volumes and OS images for their clusters like the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Konvoy users can customize instance types, volumes and OS images for their clusters like the following:
```

```yaml
kind: ClusterProvisioner
apiVersion: konvoy.mesosphere.io/v1beta1
metadata:
  name: konvoy
spec:
  provider: gcp
  gcp:
    region: us-west1
    zones:
    - us-west1-a
    - us-west1-b
    - us-west1-c
  nodePools:
  - name: worker
    count: 8
    machine:
      rootVolumeSize: 80
      rootVolumeType: pd-ssd
      imagefsVolumeEnabled: true
      imagefsVolumeSize: 160
      imagefsVolumeType: pd-ssd
      type: n1-standard-8
      imageID: rhel-7
  - name: control-plane
    controlPlane: true
    count: 3
    machine:
      rootVolumeSize: 80
      rootVolumeType: pd-ssd
      imagefsVolumeEnabled: true
      imagefsVolumeSize: 160
      imagefsVolumeType: pd-ssd
      type: n1-standard-4
      imageID: rhel-7
```

## Instance types

> For each [node pool][node_pools], the user can customize the instance type for instances in that node pool (i.e., `type` field).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For each [node pool][node_pools], users can customize the instance type for instances, in that node pool, using the `type` field.
```

> All the available virtual machine types can be found [here][virtual_machine_types].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All available virtual machine types can be found [here][virtual_machine_types].
```

## Instance volumes

> For each [node pool][node_pools], the user can customize the instance volumes attached to the instances in that node pool.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For each [node pool][node_pools], users can customize the instance volumes attached to the instances in that node pool.
```

There are two types of instance volumes:

* Root volume: this is the root disk for providing [ephemeral storage][ephemeral_storage] for the Kubernetes node (except container images if imagefs volume is enabled).
* Imagefs volume: this is the dedicated disk for providing storage for container image layers.

Imagefs volume is optional.

> If disabled, the root volume will be used to storage container image layers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If disabled, the root volume is used to store container image layers.
```

Users can customize the sizes (in GB) and [types][disks] of those volumes.

## GCP VM Images

> In GCP, you can define already available [public images][public_images] at `imageID` or your own images from an available image self link.

Reviewer: Not sure about this one.  Your call

```suggestion
In GCP, you can define already available [public images][public_images] as `imageID` or your own images from an available image self link.
```

> Default GCP Image which is used for Konvoy cluster deployments is latest available `centos-7`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The default GCP Image used for Konvoy cluster deployments is the latest available `centos-7`
```

Konvoy is tested with the `CentOS Linux 7` image.

# Adding custom Terraform resources for provisioning

> It is possible to provide custom `*.tf` resource files when provisioning.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can provide custom `*.tf` resource files when provisioning.
```

If you create additional resource files, they are used along with the default `*.tf` resource files during the provisioning process.

To add custom resource files for provisioning:

1. Create a new directory named `extras/provisioner/` to contain your custom resource files.

    ```bash
    mkdir -p extras/provisioner
    ```

1. Create a file in the `extras/provisioner/` directory to include your custom backend settings.

    ```bash
    cat <<EOF > extras/provisioner/backend.tf
    terraform {
      backend "gcs" {
        bucket  = "konvoy"
        prefix  = "${local.cluster_name}-terraform/state"
      }
    }
    EOF
    ```

>     Keep in mind that Konvoy merges any files you add to the `extras/provisioner` directory with the default `*.tf` resource files during the provisioning process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <p class="message--note"><strong>NOTE: </strong>Keep in mind that Konvoy merges any files you add to the <code>extras/provisioner</code> directory with the default <code>*.tf</code> resource files during the provisioning process. If you add a file name to the <code>extras/provisioner</code> directory that already exists in the default <code>*.tf</code> resource files, the contents of the default <code>*.tf</code> resource file are replaced with the contents from the custom file you added to the <code>extras/provisioner</code> directory.</p>

```

>     If you add a file name to the `extras/provisioner` directory that already exists in the default `*.tf` resource files, the contents of the default `*.tf` resource file are replaced with the contents from the custom file you added to the `extras/provisioner` directory.

Reviewer: I moved this up to the note.
```suggestion
    
```

1. Run the `konvoy up` command.

    As the command runs, the Terraform program merges the resource files and produces output similar to the following:

    ```text
    Successfully configured the backend "gcs"! Terraform will automatically
    use this backend unless the backend configuration changes.
    ```

>     This output in this example indicates that Terraform has successfully merged content from the `backend.tf` resource file and will store the state file in Goocle Cloud Storage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The output, in this example, indicates that Terraform has successfully merged content from the `backend.tf` resource file and will store the state file in Goocle Cloud Storage.
```

## Network

> It is possible to use an existing network if so desired.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also use an existing network.
```

To do so you must modify the `cluster.yaml` file and change the `ProvisionerConfig` in the following way:

```yaml
kind: ClusterProvisioner
apiVersion: konvoy.mesosphere.io/v1beta1
metadata:
  name: konvoy
spec:
  provider: gcp
  gcp:
    region: us-west1
    zones:
    - us-west1-a
    - us-west1-b
    - us-west1-c
    network:
      selfLink: projects/my-project-id/global/networks/my-predefined-network
...
```

### Internal only kube-apiserver LB / Forwarding rule

It is **not** possible to set the kube-apiserver LB to be `internal`.

> The GCP forwarding rules do not allow a request from a backend member being directed to another backend member internally.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The GCP forwarding rules do not allow a request, from a backend member, to be directed to another backend member internally.
```

This behaviour is documented [here][forwading_rules_internal].

### Subnets

> An existing network may already contain `subnets` for use, you may define them in the following way:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An existing network may already contain `subnets` for use. You can define them in the following way:
```

```yaml
...
spec:
  provider: gcp
  gcp:
    region: us-west1
    zones:
    - us-west1-a
    - us-west1-b
    - us-west1-c
    network:
      selfLink: projects/my-project-id/global/networks/my-predefined-network
  nodePools:
  - name: worker
    count: 8
    machine:
      rootVolumeSize: 80
      rootVolumeType: pd-ssd
      imagefsVolumeEnabled: true
      imagefsVolumeSize: 160
      imagefsVolumeType: pd-ssd
      type: n1-standard-8
      gcp:
        subnetIDs:
        - existing-subnet-for-konvoy
  - name: control-plane
    controlPlane: true
    count: 3
    machine:
      rootVolumeSize: 80
      rootVolumeType: pd-ssd
      imagefsVolumeEnabled: true
      imagefsVolumeSize: 160
      imagefsVolumeType: pd-ssd
      type: n1-standard-4
      gcp:
        subnetIDs:
        - existing-subnet-for-control-plane-konvoy
  - name: bastion
    bastion: true
    count: 1
    machine:
      rootVolumeSize: 80
      rootVolumeType: pd-ssd
      imagefsVolumeEnabled: true
      imagefsVolumeSize: 160
      imagefsVolumeType: pd-ssd
      type: n1-standard-4
      gcp:
        subnetIDs:
        - other-subnet
...
```

> Failure to define any subnets will mean that Konvoy will attempt to create subnets to cover missing nodepools.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If no subnets are defined, Konvoy attempts to create subnets to cover missing nodepools.
```

> That could lead to collisions in CIDR blocks and failure to deploy; in that case we recommend a full list of subnets be known along with the nodepools desired.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This can lead to collisions in CIDR blocks and deploy failures. In this case we recommend a full list of subnets be known along with the nodepools needed.
```

> For the most part the nodepools created should exist in a private network configuration, which is Konvoy's default approach.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the most part, the nodepools created should exist in a private network configuration. This is Konvoy's default approach.
```

> Bastion hosts allow for secure access to your cluster, but since they do need to be accessed externally they should be deployed with a subnet where public IPs are created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Bastion hosts allow for secure access to your cluster. Since they need to be accessed externally, they should be deployed with a subnet where public IPs are created.
```

The default Subnet CIDR blocks that are created by Konvoy are as follows:

* Public Subnet: `10.0.64.0/18`
* Private Subnet: `10.0.128.0/18`
* ControlPlane Subnet: `10.0.192.0/18`

> Similarly to the network, you may choose to use these block or define any other appropriate block.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Like the the network, you can choose to use these blocks or define other appropriate blocks.
```

<p class="message--note"><strong>NOTE: </strong>Keep in mind that the default value of <tt>spec.kubernetes.networking.serviceSubnet</tt> is set to <tt>10.0.0.0/18</tt>. The blocks you choose must not overlap with the <tt>serviceSubnet</tt>.</p>

### IAM Service Account and project role

> An existing IAM Service Account and project role can be used, provided that the right policies must be set:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An existing IAM Service Account and project role can be used, provided that the right policies are set:
```
